With the impressive achievement of latent factor models (LFM) in many domains, various MF-based approaches[15,18,19,36,37,40,52] have been proposed to leverage on user-item rating recommendation systems. The rating patterns could actually be inferred through the factor vectors extracted from the decomposition of the matrix. A high degree of correspondence between user and item variables facilitates recommendations. Koren et al. [51] decompose the rating matrix into two low- dimensional matrices used to describe the characteristics of the users and items, and then the inner product of the two low-dimensional matrices to reconstruct the user's rating for the unrated items. Meng et al. [34] propose a data-driven strategy for smart salary benchmarking based on the HSBMF model to predict missing wage data in the wage matrix. Thai-Nghe et al. [30] model an efficient recommendation implicitly addresses the inclusion of latent factors and proposes a technique of tensor factorization with temporal effect. Abdi et al. [26] use MF approaches to enhance the efficiency of large-scale data sets processing. Authors also integrate contextual data on the recommendation's quality and accuracy. Park et al. [11] develop an RWR technique that combines global bias with MF. Authors also tackle different elements of qualified recommendation to solve the cold- start problem. Kawale et al. [16] apply particle Thompson sampling (PTS) on MF recommendation which could automatically identify the most appropriate items and less recommended items. Unlike general Thompson sampling, PTS provides Bayesian probability matrix decomposition based on particle filter. Ma et al. [10] build a factor analysis strategy based on probabilistic matrix factorization (PMF) to fix information sparsity and poor prediction accuracy problems. PMF also uses social network data and rating records for both users. Yu et al. [12] consider the generalization of MF incorporating side information from user or item characteristics and derive an effective alternative minimization procedure for the optimization problem. Jamali et al. [27] explore a model-based approach to social network recommendations and integrate MF techniques with the trust propagation mechanism into the model.
