Kantz et al. [21] introduce the time variability of many natural and social phenomena is not well described by standard methods of data analysis. However, nonlinear time series analysis uses chaos theory and nonlinear dynamics to understand seemingly unpredictable behavior. Donner et al. [6] presents a new approach for analyzing the structural properties of time series from complex systems. Starting from the concept of recurrences in phase space, the recurrence matrix of a time series is interpreted as the adjacency matrix of an associated complex network, which links different points in time if the considered states are closely neighboured in phase space. Barão aet al. [1] compare linear against non-linear models, ARIMA and Artificial Neural Networks. Using the log returns of nine countries we tried to demonstrate that neural networks can be used to uncover the non-linearity that exists in the financial field. Based on the linear and non-linear methods for recommendation system, Bursac et al. [2] propose a selection which can automates the decision to find the best variable selection algorithms in model. Those variable selection procedure has the capability of retaining important confounding variables, resulting potentially in a slightly richer model. Ning et al. [32] focuses on developing effective and efficient algorithms for Top-N recommender systems. Propose a novel Sparse Linear Methods (SLIM) which achieves significant improvements both in run time performance and recommendation quality over the best existing methods. Cheng et al. [5] propose a novel Sparse and Low-Rank Linear Method (Lor SLIM) to capture such structure and apply this model to improve the accuracy of Top-N recommendation. Lor SLIM demonstrate the superior recommendation quality of the proposed algorithm in comparison with current state-of-the-art methods. Kabbur et al. [20] propose method uses a nonlinear model for predicting the recommendation score, which is used to perform Top-N recommendation task. Proposed method shows that the model outperforms other state-of-the-art methods for Top-N recommendation task. Xia et al. [49] introduce the concept of “time decay” by giving it mathematical definition and redefine the item-to-item similarity function base on time decay.
