F1 score In this section, we evaluate the ranking performance of proposed models comparing with traditional recurrent architecture. We employ Precision (P@K), Recall (R@K) and F1 score(F1@K) to evaluate the ranking tasks. The evaluation score for our experiment is computed according to whether the next selected item in the ranked list as shown in Equation. 11, 12, 13. Since the model comparison results show the similar trend in values of K (100), we discuss representative results of P@K, R@K and F1@K with K = 100 in our experiments as shown in Fig. 7, 8, 9, 10. We know that decision of latent factor need to develop in practice. This result verifies the performance of our time decay modeling which incorporating time decay function and NMF model. Often, there is an inverse relationship between precision and recall. Precision can be seen as a measure of exactness or quality, whereas recall is a measure of completeness or quantity. In simple terms, high precision means that an algorithm returned substantially more relevant results than irrelevant ones, while high recall means that an algorithm returned most of the relevant results. Precision is used with recall, the percent of all relevant documents that is returned by the search. The two measures are sometimes used together in the F1 Score (or f-measure) to provide a single measurement for a system. In precision rate which show precision result in Fig.7 and 8, we can observe that no doubt the precision rate of linear or non-linear decay NMF methods are higher than traditional MF. Especially Non-linear decay NMFs in Fig.7 (a) and (c) and Fig.8 (d) have higher precision rate comparing with traditional NMF. On the other hand, linear decay NMF got higher precision rate in Fig.8 (a) and (d) comparing with traditional NMF as well. However, NMF in Fig.8 (d) got the highest precision rate. Individually, Dec_NMF-Half got higher precision rate than traditional NMF in Fig.7 (c), Fig.8 (a) and (d), respectively. Especially precision rate of Dec_NMF-Half got the highest value in Fig.7 (c). Dec_NMF-Full only got two precision rate higher than traditional NMF in Fig.8 (a) and (d). Dec_NMF-Double got four precision rate higher than traditional NMF in Fig.7 (c) and Fig.8 (a), (b) and (d). In Fig.8 (b), Dec_NMF-Double got the highest precision rate. Dec_NMF-Power got higher precision rate higher than traditional NMF in Fig.7 (a) and (c) and Fig.8 (c) and (d). In Fig.8 (d), Dec_NMF- Power got the highest precision rate. Dec_NMF-Exponential got higher precision rate higher than traditional NMF in Fig.7 (a), (b) and (c) and Fig.8 (a), (c) and (d). In Fig.8 (a) and (b), Dec_NMF-Exponential got the highest precision rate. Dec_NMF-Logistic got five precision rate higher than traditional NMF in Fig.7 (a) and (c) and Fig.8 (a), (c) and (d). Especially in Fig.7 (a) and (c) and Fig.8 (a) and (c), Dec_NMF-Logistic got highest result. We show recall result in Fig.9, 10. We can observe that the recall rate of traditional MF is all higher than NMF methods. On the other hand, traditional NMF got higher recall rate result in l Fig.9 (a), (b) and (d) and Fig.10 (b) and (d). Non-linear decay NMF got lower recall rate result in Fig.9 (a) and (d) and Fig.10 (b) and (d). Individually, Dec_NMF-Half got lower recall rate comparing with traditional NMF in Fig.9 (a), (b) and (d) and Fig.10 (a), (b), (c) and (d). Dec_NMF-Full got lower recall rate comparing with traditional NMF in Fig.9 (a), (b) and (d) and Fig.10 (a), (b), (c) and (d). Dec_NMF- Double got lower recall rate comparing with traditional NMF in Fig.9 (a), (b) and (d) and Fig.10 (b) and (d). Dec_NMF-Power got lower recall rate comparing with traditional NMF in Fig.9 (a), (b) and (d) and Fig.10 (a) and (d). Dec_NMF-Exponential got lower recall rating comparing with traditional NMF in Fig.9 (a) and (d) and Fig.10 (a) and (d). Dec_NMF-Logistic got lower recall rate than traditional NMF in Fig.9 (a) and (d) and Fig.10 (a) and (d). Especially Dec_NMF-Half in Fig.9 (d) and Fig.10 (a), (c) and (d), Dec_NMF-Full in Fig.10 (a), Dec_NMF-Double in Fig.9 (a) and (b), Dec_NMF-Logistic got lowest recall result Fig.10 (b), respectively. Dec_NMF-Power and Dec_NMF- Exponential did not get any lowest recall result comparing with traditional MF, NMF and proposed NMF methods. Fig.11 and 12 demonstrate the F1 score comparison. Dec_NMF-Half got two highest F1 score in Fig.11 (c) and Fig.12 (a). Dec_NMF-Double got highest F1score result in Fig.12 (c). Dec_NMF-Power got the highest F1score in Fig.12 (d). Especially Dec_NMF-Exponential not only got highest F1 score in Fig.11 (b) and Fig.12 (b), but also got three second highest F1 score in Fig.12 (a), (c) and (d). Dec_NMF-Logistic not only got highest F1 score in Fig.11 (a), but also got second highest F1 score in Fig.11 (d). However, traditional NMF got the highest F1 score in Fig.11 (d). Fig.13 and 14 represent that impact of different latent factor. In precision, we can observe that all model trend to rising. More latent factor we used, higher precision rate we got in Fig.13, 14 (a) and (b). Especially we can observe that precision increase rapidly in Fig.14 latent factor 500K. However, no matter how quality of latent factor we used, the precision of traditional MF did not increase at all, even decrease slightly. In recall rate, more complex in Fig.13 (b). Especially exponential time decay NMF in latent factor100 got highest recall which more than traditional NMF 10%. Recall rate in Fig.14 (b) keep the consistency decreasing slightly. However, we can observe that traditional MF no longer have any change. In F1 score, all models keep the consistency. Especially F1 score has grown tremendously in latent factor 500. Although we can observe that Dec_NMF methods are better than traditional NMF in Fig. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. However, we cannot confirm that our proposed methods are all better than traditional NMF which may represent that when we want to find a suitable latent factor, it does not exist any trail between choice of dataset and latent factors. In Fig.13 and 14, we can observe that more latent factor can get the higher results in proposed methods. Figure 8 The comparison of precision rate on MovieLens 1M Figure 7 The comparison of precision rate on MovieLens 100K Figure 9 The comparison of recall rate on MovieLens 100K Figure 10 The comparison of recall rate on MovieLens 1M Figure 12 Figure 11 The comparison of F1 score on MovieLens 100K Figure 11 The comparison of F1 score on MovieLens 1M Figure 13The performance comparison of different latent factors on MovieLens 100K Figure 14 The performance comparison of different latent factors on MovieLens 1M
